README.md, before:

PlanetaryVRMLs
==============

VRMLs I have created in support of planetary science.

The only VRML viewer up to the task of rendering these VRMLs, in my experience, is the Windows Cortona
viewer by Parallel Graphics
(http://www.cortona3d.com/cortona3d-viewer-download),
running as a plugin to Internet Explorer.
All other viewers, from Octaga to the "crap promises" of FreeWRL, fail in some way,
typically handling the ECMAscript interactions.

Update:  Apparently that is an old 32-bit Cortona; the latest one seems to have problems.
InstantReality on Ubuntu seems to work pretty well, although it does not handle the .hitPoint_changed
event properly under HartleyFlyby/.

Update II:  The presence of a DirectionalLight node inhibited the .hitPoint_changed event;
created Carcich_flyby_instantreality.wrl under HartleyFlyby/ that works with InstantReality.


###NextFlyby/

Simulation of Stardust/NExT flyby of comet 9P/Tempel 1, finalized one day before the flyby on 14.Feb, 2011.
An earlier version of this VRML was used to set the Time Of Arrival (TOA) Trajectory Correction Maneuver (TCM) on year
earlier; the goal of the TCM was to arrive at the comet and be able to view a lit impact site as created by the Deep Impact
mission in 2005.

Includes rotation of image due to mirror rotation, and generates views that are strikingly close to the actual images,
a testimony to the exceptional effort put forth by the Science Team to develop the TOA TCM.

Click and Drag on bar at top to simulate passage of time around flyby.

Click the white squares to adjust the flyby parameters; this is exactly what the Science Team did in February, 2010
to plan the flyby.

- BdotT sets the miss distance at Time of Closest Approach (TCA)

- BdotR sets the distance above or below the target plane

- Rotation sets the rotational phase at TCA, and is analogous to adjusting the TOA.



###Lightcurve9P/

Simplified presentation of Hubble Space Telescope (HST) lightcurve data for comet 9P/Tempel 1.
This VRML was generated by a CGI process, typically accessed via BASH scripts.

The gold circles represent actual disk integrated brightness (lightcurve) data taken over some time period.

The magenta curve represents synthetic lightcurve data generated using shape- and rotation state-models 
of 9P and the viewing and illumination photometric parameters for the HST data over the same time period.

Click and Drag over the brown transparent area to shift the HST data (gold circles) relative to the synthetic lightcurve.

Click and Drag over the blue transparent area to see the shape model (on the right) at various sub-observer West
longitudes.


###HartleyFlyby/

A pre-flyby simulation of the Deep Impact Flyby (DIF) spacecraft encounter with comet 103P/Hartley 2,
using a sphere for the shape of the comet.
This was based on science planning and views the comet through the High Resolution Imager (HRI) visible (VIS) and infrared
(IR) fields of view for 1000s during both approach and departure.

The fields on the left are, from top to bottom:  time; IR Exposure ID and image number; sequence name; IR image mode.

Moving the cursor over the gold bar on the right browses over time;
clicking on the shape starts an animation of the flyby.

See the file Carcich_103p_vrml.png for more legend information.

#####N.B. Use Carcich_flyby_instantreality.wrl if using InstantReality viewer.



###Hartley2Rotations/

Two post-flyby simulations of a tumbling comet 103P/Hartley 2.  
The X, Y and Z vectors are the principal axes of the Hartley 2 shape model and fixed with respect to the comet.
The H and sun vectors represent the angular momentum and direction to the sun, both fixed in inertial space.

Clicking on the shape starts an animation in either VRML.
In one, the field of view is fixed with respect to the comet and inertial space tumbles;
in the other, the field of view is fixed with respect to inertial space and the comet tumbles.



###BeltonCospar/

VRML developed for Dr. Mike Belton (Belton Space Exploration Initiatives, LLC, Tucson, Arizona) in preparation
for the 2008 COSPAR (Committee on Space Research) conference.

An early version of NextFlyby/ above, these VRML files model three cometary jets (A, B, C) on comet 9P/Tempel 1
as transparent cones.

Commit message:

added comment about needing to copy files locally

README.md, after:

PlanetaryVRMLs
==============

VRMLs I have created in support of planetary science.

As this is GitHub, you will need to copy all files from here to a local directory to see
these simulations properly using a VRML viewer.

The only VRML viewer up to the task of rendering these VRMLs, in my experience, is the Windows Cortona
viewer by Parallel Graphics
(http://www.cortona3d.com/cortona3d-viewer-download),
running as a plugin to Internet Explorer.
All other viewers, from Octaga to the "crap promises" of FreeWRL, fail in some way,
typically handling the ECMAscript interactions.

Update:  Apparently that is an old 32-bit Cortona; the latest one seems to have problems.
InstantReality on Ubuntu seems to work pretty well, although it does not handle the .hitPoint_changed
event properly under HartleyFlyby/.

Update II:  The presence of a DirectionalLight node inhibited the .hitPoint_changed event;
created Carcich_flyby_instantreality.wrl under HartleyFlyby/ that works with InstantReality.


###NextFlyby/

Simulation of Stardust/NExT flyby of comet 9P/Tempel 1, finalized one day before the flyby on 14.Feb, 2011.
An earlier version of this VRML was used to set the Time Of Arrival (TOA) Trajectory Correction Maneuver (TCM) on year
earlier; the goal of the TCM was to arrive at the comet and be able to view a lit impact site as created by the Deep Impact
mission in 2005.

Includes rotation of image due to mirror rotation, and generates views that are strikingly close to the actual images,
a testimony to the exceptional effort put forth by the Science Team to develop the TOA TCM.

Click and Drag on bar at top to simulate passage of time around flyby.

Click the white squares to adjust the flyby parameters; this is exactly what the Science Team did in February, 2010
to plan the flyby.

- BdotT sets the miss distance at Time of Closest Approach (TCA)

- BdotR sets the distance above or below the target plane

- Rotation sets the rotational phase at TCA, and is analogous to adjusting the TOA.



###Lightcurve9P/

Simplified presentation of Hubble Space Telescope (HST) lightcurve data for comet 9P/Tempel 1.
This VRML was generated by a CGI process, typically accessed via BASH scripts.

The gold circles represent actual disk integrated brightness (lightcurve) data taken over some time period.

The magenta curve represents synthetic lightcurve data generated using shape- and rotation state-models 
of 9P and the viewing and illumination photometric parameters for the HST data over the same time period.

Click and Drag over the brown transparent area to shift the HST data (gold circles) relative to the synthetic lightcurve.

Click and Drag over the blue transparent area to see the shape model (on the right) at various sub-observer West
longitudes.


###HartleyFlyby/

A pre-flyby simulation of the Deep Impact Flyby (DIF) spacecraft encounter with comet 103P/Hartley 2,
using a sphere for the shape of the comet.
This was based on science planning and views the comet through the High Resolution Imager (HRI) visible (VIS) and infrared
(IR) fields of view for 1000s during both approach and departure.

The fields on the left are, from top to bottom:  time; IR Exposure ID and image number; sequence name; IR image mode.

Moving the cursor over the gold bar on the right browses over time;
clicking on the shape starts an animation of the flyby.

See the file Carcich_103p_vrml.png for more legend information.

#####N.B. Use Carcich_flyby_instantreality.wrl if using InstantReality viewer.



###Hartley2Rotations/

Two post-flyby simulations of a tumbling comet 103P/Hartley 2.  
The X, Y and Z vectors are the principal axes of the Hartley 2 shape model and fixed with respect to the comet.
The H and sun vectors represent the angular momentum and direction to the sun, both fixed in inertial space.

Clicking on the shape starts an animation in either VRML.
In one, the field of view is fixed with respect to the comet and inertial space tumbles;
in the other, the field of view is fixed with respect to inertial space and the comet tumbles.



###BeltonCospar/

VRML developed for Dr. Mike Belton (Belton Space Exploration Initiatives, LLC, Tucson, Arizona) in preparation
for the 2008 COSPAR (Committee on Space Research) conference.

An early version of NextFlyby/ above, these VRML files model three cometary jets (A, B, C) on comet 9P/Tempel 1
as transparent cones.
